Project Introduction:

Developed an understanding of Unix-style forking and x86 memory management by implementing a copy-on-write fork() system call in xv6 kernel. This involved writing a trap handler for page faults, augmenting the physical memory management code, and manipulating page tables.

Designed and implemented a Stride Scheduler algorithm in xv6 kernel using C. This algorithm assigns tickets to each process and calculates the stride for each process based on the number of tickets. It schedules the process with the minimum pass value in each time slot. Two new system calls were created: settickets(int number) and getpinfo(struct pstat*), which respectively set the number of tickets for a process and return information about running processes.

Conducted experiments and generated graphs to demonstrate the performance improvement achieved by implementing copy-on-write and Stride Scheduler in xv6 kernel. The implementation showed a significant reduction in the time required for forking large processes, while the Stride Scheduler algorithm improved the CPU utilization and response time of the system. The graphs and experiments can be used to further optimize the implementation and improve system performance.



xv6 is a re-implementation of Dennis Ritchie's and Ken Thompson's Unix
Version 6 (v6).  xv6 loosely follows the structure and style of v6,
but is implemented for a modern x86-based multiprocessor using ANSI C.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

xv6 is inspired by John Lions's Commentary on UNIX 6th Edition (Peer
to Peer Communications; ISBN: 1-57398-013-7; 1st edition (June 14,
2000)). See also http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2007/v6.html, which
provides pointers to on-line resources for v6.

xv6 borrows code from the following sources:
    JOS (asm.h, elf.h, mmu.h, bootasm.S, ide.c, console.c, and others)
    Plan 9 (bootother.S, mp.h, mp.c, lapic.c)
    FreeBSD (ioapic.c)
    NetBSD (console.c)

The following people made contributions:
    Russ Cox (context switching, locking)
    Cliff Frey (MP)
    Xiao Yu (MP)
    Nickolai Zeldovich
    Austin Clements

In addition, we are grateful for the patches contributed by Greg
Price, Yandong Mao, and Hitoshi Mitake.

The code in the files that constitute xv6 is
Copyright 2006-2007 Frans Kaashoek, Robert Morris, and Russ Cox.

ERROR REPORTS

If you spot errors or have suggestions for improvement, please send
email to Frans Kaashoek and Robert Morris (kaashoek,rtm@csail.mit.edu). 

BUILDING AND RUNNING XV6

To build xv6 on an x86 ELF machine (like Linux or FreeBSD), run "make".
On non-x86 or non-ELF machines (like OS X, even on x86), you will
need to install a cross-compiler gcc suite capable of producing x86 ELF
binaries.  See http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2007/tools.html.
Then run "make TOOLPREFIX=i386-jos-elf-".

To run xv6, you can use Bochs or QEMU, both PC simulators.
Bochs makes debugging easier, but QEMU is much faster. 
To run in Bochs, run "make bochs" and then type "c" at the bochs prompt.
To run in QEMU, run "make qemu".

